So the next one we're gonna talk
about is dynamic routes and content.
So previously we talked about static
routes with content with static pages.
So now we're gonna talk
about dynamic content
on a dynamic route that
generates a static page.
So again, so many terms, but
I think it's important to really
understand how these work.
Because depending on how you build your
app and the type of page it is, where
you're getting the data from, it's going
to determine a user experience really.
But the beautiful thing about it, is that
next.js allows you to basically opt in and
opt out and pretty much do whatever
you want, whenever you want.
It has so many options and
you're gonna see.
And I'll highlight them here in
the syllabus, cuz even I'm just like,
this is crazy and
this is insane that you can do this.
So, yeah, enough about that.
Let's hop right in.
So, basically,
we're going to create a blog, right,
so we want our blog to be
able to pull from our CMS.
And we want it to be able to handle new
posts that come in and stuff like that.
So that's what we're going to do.
So, just a little recap on the app and
how things work.
If we go look at our app here,
and we go look at the blog,
we have two pages in here.
So this index page, this is basically the
page when you go to someone's blog, and
it shows you all the blog entries with
their summaries and you click on one,
okay, that's what this page is.
This is just a index for all your blogs,
some people will paginate
this if they have a lot.
We're not doing all that, we're just gonna
list all the blogs in our summaries here.
And then when you click on the blog,
it's gonna take you to this page,
which is an individual post.
And that's where you'll actually be able
to see the full posts and all that stuff.
So we're gonna make both
of these actually work.
So, first thing we're going to do
is head over to the index page.
And we need to basically do the same
thing we did for the landing page index,
because right now it's just
getting posts from default props,
which is empty, it's just a empty array.
So we need to actually get
the posts from our CMS but
also we have posts from our file system.
I obviously wouldn't recommend
doing this in real life,
having some content, some blog posts
coming from your file system, and
then also having some
content coming from a CMS.
I don't know why you would do that.
But yeah, I don't recommend doing that.
But we're doing it so I can show you the
power of how you can use different sources
inside of your static props and
how you can mix things together,
and how next.js just doesn't care.
So that's what we're going to do.
So we're going to pull from our CMS,
which if we go look at that,
which is just content.js, where's that,
there we go content.ts, I'm sorry.
You can see we have seen some
published blog posts down here,
put in draft from one to two as well.
So we're just going to
pull from both of these.
So the first thing we wanna do is,
basically,
we're gonna create our git static
props inside the index page.
And there, the index page is basically
just gonna be responsible for just getting
basically those blog posts, getting
your frontmatter from those NDX files,
and we just want to be able to get
the title in the summary, and that's it.
Cuz that's all we're going
to show in that preview,
we don't really care about
the full post on that page.
So we'll work on that.
So the first thing we're going to do is
we're going to actually add the git static
props on the index page, so let's do that.
So I'm gonna go here to
the index page of blog.
And I'm going to go down here, and I'm
going to say export const, or not const,
let's do function, export function
getStaticProps like that, okay?
And then what I wanna do here, is like
I said, we have some inside of the CMS,
and then we have some
inside of the file system.
So let's do the CMS first.
I'm already importing it up top.
I imported mine as posts from CMS,
so we don't confuse the two.
So I'm gonna do that.
So I'm gonna get the post from the CMS
here, it says return some props.
And it looks like they need to
be in an array called post.
So I'll just put post here.
And then we need to actually
go make these posts here.
So, the first thing we need to do
is if we look at the blog post,
it doesn't matter if it's coming from
the CMS or not, it's just in DX.
So you can see there's
some frontmatter here, and
then there's some actual mark down, right?
And if we go look at the ones on
the filesystem, they're the same thing.
We got some frontmatter and
then some mark down, it's the same thing.
So technically,
they should work the same way.
So that's how we're gonna handle it.
So the first thing we wanna do is we want
to transform the ones from the CMS to
be able to get the actual data from
the frontmatter, we wanna parse that out.
So what we'll do is we'll go ahead and
we'll say, these will be posts from,
well, I guess it's already there,
I'll just call it CMS posts.
And this is gonna eqauls postsFromCMS.map,
we're gonna map over those.
We're gonna get a post.
And then what we're gonna do here
is we're just going to return,
I have a package up here called matter.
So matter takes in a markdown string, and
it will return the content and
then the frontmatter in a JSON object.
So that's what we'll use.
So I'm going to return matter, like this.
And actually, I don't really want
the constant right here, okay.
No, I gotta hit escape,
no, x, there we go.
Okay, I almost hit escape.
[LAUGH] So
I need to just return the matter here.
So I'll just say data,
and then matter like this.
And then what I can do is I
can pass in the posts, or
I think this is postCMS.published.
Is that published?
Here we go, yeah, so
we look at the publish ones.
Then I'm gonna get the post type scripts
written out, but it's all right.
And then I want to pass in the post here,
this is going to give us a data,
like that.
Yeah, what's the return value obviously,
and then I'm just gonna return the data.
So this is gonna return a JSON object for
this,
it's basically alternatives to an object.
So we'll have a title, a publishedOn,
an author summary, slug, same thing for
the content.
It's the same thing, title,
summary, slug, all that stuff.
So we got that for the CMS post.
We can do the same thing for
the filesystem post, all right?
So the first thing we need to do is well,
how do you read the filesystem and
node, right?
Anyone know how to do that, right?
You use the filesystem
packages built into node,
but wait, we're in a react component.
How are we importing?
If you try to import this right now, and
create react app, tell me what happens,
[LAUGH] right?
It's not gonna be good, right?
We're actually importing node stuff
inside of a client's react file,
and I think that part can be confusing.
The reason this works and the reason
that's magical is because next.js
actually removes all the server side code
that's used and the server side functions.
They don't actually get
bundled to the browser.
They get executed on the server, but
they don't get bundled to the browser.
So we can import node only code in here,
server side code,
and be rest assured that it's still
gonna work in the browser, right?
You can't use a filesystem in the browser,
you can't use path in a browser.
But we can use it in a page index.js as
long as it's going to be used inside of
a git static props.
So that's what we're going to do.
So let's get the directory so
we'll say post directory
is going to equal fs.read,
lets do readerSync I guess.
And we'll say process.cwd,
because we're in node,
we can do process, all right?
So we'll do that, and
then we'll pass in posts,
because I'm pretty sure that's
where these are, all right?
So we got post, that's the directory.
So then what we want to do,
what was this thing.
Okay, I think I just need to do,
let's make a path first.
So let's make a posts path and
we'll do a path.join or actually,
maybe a path.resolve.
Let's do path.join.
We'll do path.join and
we'll say process.cwd like this.
And then we'll say posts like that.
And then what we can do is we
can just pass this in here.
Like that, posts path.
There we go.
So we'll read this,
we'll get the directory.
And then what we want to do is we want
to loop over each thing here, right?
We want to basically go and
get every single file inside of
the directory, so like this.
So like what I have here,
if you're following along here,
you can see we're just gonna
loop over the file names, right?
Because this is gonna give us
back an array of file names.
So we just wanna loop over that.
So that's what we're gonna do.
Let me go back here.
So we're gonna say, actually,
I'll probably just keep it consistent,
I'll call this filenames.
And then I'll just say this
will be filePosts, I guess.
I will say filenames.map,
we'll get the name here.
And then we actually
need to read the file, so
we'll say file = fs.readFile.
And then what we can do is we
can pass in the name like that.
So we get the name, and
then we can do etf, e for the encoding.
And we'll do readFileSync actually.
So then we'll do readFileSync here,
why is this thing freaking out?
I guess it wants me to do return.
So then we'll get the file here.
And now that we have the file, we're
pretty much in the same spot where we were
up here, where we have a string,
we can pass it to matter.
That'll give us back some data,
and so we'll do that.
So we'll get the data here, oops.
It came back up.
There we go, get some data here.
And, wait, why can't I type now?
There we go, okay.
And we'll say matter and we'll pass in
the file that'll give us the data and
it will just return the data,
just like that.
Everybody following me so far?
So we got the post from our CMS,
we converted its frontmatter to objects.
We got the post from the filesystem,
we converted those to objects.
So now we have two arrays
of similar looking things.
And we have this posting
that's supposed to be here, so
then we'll just come down here and
we'll say const posts equals some array,
I'm gonna spread over my cmsPosts and
then I'm gonna spread over my file post,
filePosts, there we go.
So now I got all those posts.
And then I can just pass
them down like that, right,
I need to add the actual full path.
So let's get the fullPath of
path.join(process.cwd) and
then we want to get the,
what was it, post?
Oops.
And then we want to get the name,
like that.
And then we can put that in there,
fullPath.
I put post, it posts,
there we go, all right.
I get it wrong all the time.
Okay, and then now this one is saying,
basically, this is freaking out.
Let me see, post props must be
returned as a plain object.
Let's see, yeah, I guess I'll just
put an array here, obviously,
that needs to be like posts, like that.
So let's do that.
And then, boom, now we got some posts.
So you can see here,
if we go look at the content,
I can tell you cuz I built this,
these two are gonna be from the CMS.
And then these next three
are actually from the filesystem.
So, we can go confirm, if I go look at
the CMS here, I have one that starts with,
I'm looking at the published ones,
it says we're hiring as the title, and
another one that says,
why you should write down everything.
So, here's where hiring,
why you should write down everything,
and then the rest of the three or
four, come from the filesystem, here.
So again, next.js doesn't not care
where you pull this from, right?
I pull something from a file system,
I pulled another one from our fake CMS,
you can pull something
from an API somewhere.
Wherever you want, you can totally do it,
this is an async function,
you can do whatever you want.
And eventually I'm going to show you how
we can actually access the database and
one of these functions which is
really crazy if you think about it.